Digital ocean (#621)
rstudio/plumber: vignettes/execution-model.Rmd

Incoming HTTP requests are serviced in the order in which they appeared, but if requests are coming in more quickly than they can be processed by the API, a backlog of requests will accrue. The common solutions to this problem are to do either or both of:

 1. Keep your API performant. All filters and endpoints should complete very quickly and any long-running or complicated tasks should be done outside of the API process.

>  2. Run multiple R processes to redundantly host a single Plumber API and load-balance incoming requests between all available processes. See companion package `plumberDeploy` for details on which hosting environments support this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. Run multiple R processes to redundantly host a single Plumber API and load-balance incoming requests between all available processes. See the [hosting section](./hosting.html) for details on which hosting environments support this feature.
```

Writing to files on disk is often the next most obvious choice for storing state. Plumber APIs could modify a data frame then use `write.csv()` to save that data to disk, or use `writeLines()` to append some new data to an existing file. These approaches enable your R process to be stateless, but are not always resilient to concurrency issues. For instance, if you've horizontally scaled your API to five R processes and two go to `write.csv()` simultaneously, you will either see one process's data get immediately overwritten by the other's, or -- even worse -- you may end up with a corrupted CSV file which can't be read. Unless otherwise stated, it's safe to assume that any R function that writes data to disk is not resilient to concurrency contention, so you should not rely on the filesystem to coordinate shared state for any more than a single R process running concurrently.

> It's also important to ask whether or not the hosting platform you'll be using supports persistent storage on disk. For instance, Docker may insulate your R process from your hardware and not allow you to write outside of your container. RStudio Connect, too, will provision a new directory every time you deploy an updated version of your API which will discard any data you had written to disk up to that point. So if you're considering writing your state to disk long-term, be sure that your hosting environment supports persistent on-disk storage and that you've considered the concurrency implications of your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also important to ask whether or not the [hosting platform](./hosting.html) you'll be using supports persistent storage on disk. For instance, Docker may insulate your R process from your hardware and not allow you to write outside of your container. RStudio Connect, too, will provision a new directory every time you deploy an updated version of your API which will discard any data you had written to disk up to that point. So if you're considering writing your state to disk long-term, be sure that your hosting environment supports persistent on-disk storage and that you've considered the concurrency implications of your code.
```
